# Migration to Version 1.x

Thank you for using **klaf** version 1.x. This page outlines the major changes in version 1.x.

The **klaf** library is the new name for the **tissue-roll** library. Klaf 1.x.x corresponds to TissueRoll 6.x.x. Therefore, this migration document is intended for users of TissueRoll 5.x.x.

## Asynchronous Create and Open Functions

The functions for creating or opening a database are now called asynchronously. Please use the `await` keyword.

```typescript
const db = await KlafDocument.Open({
  path: 'your-database',
  scheme: {
    ...
  }
})
```

## Separation of Database Engines

To support more platforms, the previously merged data engines have been separated. While this means you'll need to manually configure the engine, it allows for broader usage of **klaf** across various platforms!

If you previously managed your database using files, please use the FileSystem engine:

```typescript
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf/engine/FileSystem'
```

If you managed your database in memory, please use the InMemory engine:

```typescript
import { InMemoryEngine } from 'klaf/engine/InMemory'
```

There is now a new engine called WebWorkerEngine, which can only be used in dedicated web workers:

```typescript
import { WebWorkerEngine } from 'klaf/engine/WebWorker'
```

For a complete list of engines, please refer to the [Klaf Engines](../engine/README.md) documentation.

```typescript
import { KlafDocument } from 'klaf'
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf/engine/FileSystem'

const engine = new FileSystemEngine()
const db = await KlafDocument.Open({
  path: 'your-database',
  engine,
  scheme: {
    ...
  }
})
```

## Changes to Klaf Key-Value Database Creation Parameters

The **Klaf** key-value database now accepts creation parameters in JSON format, similar to the **KlafDocument** database. With the addition of engine features, the number of creation parameters had increased significantly, so we have switched to an optional JSON format for better organization.

```typescript
import { Klaf } from 'klaf'
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf/engine/FileSystem'

const engine = new FileSystemEngine()
const db = await Klaf.Create({
  path: 'your-database',
  engine,
  payloadSize: 1024,
  // overwrite: true
})
```
