# klaf.js 3.0.0 Migration Guide

## Major Changes

Thank you for your interest in klaf.js. In version 3.0.0, the stability of the database has been significantly enhanced. A major change is that the database will no longer terminate due to errors during database operations.

Previously, in Klaf, if an error occurred during read/write operations, the application would terminate. In this case, the database file could become corrupted, making recovery impossible.

Starting from version 3.0.0, a feature called "Journal" has been added. When there is a modification to the database, a portion of the corresponding logical page is backed up to a separate file. If all operations complete successfully, the Journal backup file is deleted. However, if they do not, the backup file remains.

Subsequently, when the Klaf database is reopened, the Journal backup file is automatically detected. If the file exists, recovery is attempted. The Journal backup file is handled carefully, so recovery will likely succeed. Even if recovery fails for some reason, the journal file will not be deleted until it succeeds, so you can retry recovery by restarting the database.

Please refer to the details below.

### Journal Feature

To enable the Journal feature, you only need to add a single line of code.

```typescript
import { Klaf, DataJournal } from 'klaf.js'
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf.js/engine/FileSystem'

const db = await Klaf.Open({
  path: 'my_file_path.db',
  engine: new FileSystemEngine(),
  journal: new DataJournal(new FileSystemEngine()), // Pass the journal parameter with the DataJournal instance in the constructor options.
})
```

This is all the user needs to do; the rest will be handled by Klaf. The `journal` parameter accepts a `DataJournal` instance and requires an engine as a constructor argument. The important point is that the engine used when creating this `DataJournal` instance must be of the same class as the database's `engine`, but it must not be the same instance.

The following are examples of what you should not do:

```typescript
import { Klaf, DataJournal } from 'klaf.js'
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf.js/engine/FileSystem'
import { InMemoryEngine } from 'klaf.js/engine/InMemory'

const db = await Klaf.Open({
  path: 'my_file_path.db',
  engine: new FileSystemEngine(),
  journal: new DataJournal(new InMemoryEngine()), // Error! You must not pass an engine of a different class than the engine parameter.
})
```

```typescript
import { Klaf, DataJournal } from 'klaf.js'
import { FileSystemEngine } from 'klaf.js/engine/FileSystem'

const sameEngineInstance = new FileSystemEngine();
const db = await Klaf.Open({
  path: 'my_file_path.db',
  engine: sameEngineInstance,
  journal: new DataJournal(sameEngineInstance), // Error! You must not pass the same instance as the engine parameter.
})
```

### Error Handling

For database stability, the database no longer throws errors. However, there may be cases where you need to handle errors. Therefore, for error handling, methods now return a tuple in the form of `[err, result]`.

Previously, you had to handle errors like this:

```typescript
try {
  const data = await db.put(myData)
} catch (err) {
  console.error("Something's wrong...", err)
}
```

Now, it has been changed as follows:

```typescript
const [err, data] = await db.put(myData)
if (err) {
  console.error("Something's wrong...", err)
}
```

This tuple-style return value was inevitably introduced along with the implementation of the Journal feature.

Therefore, the migration scope includes all methods of `Klaf` and `KlafDocument` instances, and you must review all previously written database-related code.
